I was playing with my nephew in the park, and I demonstrated to him how to go down a slide, but I never stopped. The slide just kept on going and going!!
#010-2

I was lost, while driving, and ended up in Dorchester. I saw a stabbing and a shooting, went to police station to ask for help. And all I kept saying to myself was that I would not have been lost if I had a car phone! 
#010-3

I was driving down the street and I went to put my foot on the brake, and it didn't work!
#023-3

I dreamt the house across the street from me was on fire. The people who live there were not there. It was a friend of my family and her daughter. I was looking out the window and saw all the smoke so I called 911 but it was busy.
#023-4

I dreamt I was cashiering at work and a girl I used to go to school with handed in a fake check (one you get in a new wallet) and I accepted it. I dreamt my sister got her hair lightened.
#025-3

I dreamed that I was with my coworkers having a splendid party in someone's house. Even though I had many people surrounding me, I felt so lonely and I just wanted to cry. I went to the bathroom and something hit me, and I woke up.
#027-3

I was playing with an adorable blue-eyed baby boy, making him laugh and play. He was very strong and wanted to walk on his own. Then out of the blue there was my Uncle Salvi. He died at least six years ago. He was laughing and playing too!
#049-2

I have a telephone in my hand and I'm trying to call a beeper number. I push the buttons on the phone but the wrong numbers are being pushed into the phone. Every time I try to type in the right numbers, they come up wrong.
#108-1

I was scratching a $1.00 scratch ticket and I won a couple of hundred dollars. I'm not sure exactly how much but I know it was a couple hundred.
#139-1

I had a dream that my friend's boyfriend kissed me. We both felt funny and then we were with my boyfriend and his girlfriend in my car. The car was dirty and I noticed that there were white feathers all over the car.
