If we change as she is changing,  if she changes as we change   (If she changes, I am changing)   Who is changing, as I bend  down to what the sky has sent us?   (Is she changing, or the same?)
Their authority did not unfold from ironed white shirts and thin ties or from the funereal seriousness that struck their acne-splashed faces but because they stood heir to our native faith in light.  So we followed the thin white waver of beams they pointed down aisles to seats we never thought of refusing. It was the first job I wanted, especially after birthday outings  far from home showed me the glowing outfits worn by big-city ushers, their get-ups a blend of doorman and military dictator, as gaudy and fine as the plots of movies my Saturdays were swallowed by.  None of us knew, as they took us into the artificial light of the cinema, that they walked the path of the pin setter, the blacksmith or elevator operator, professions reduced to curiosity  by wandering time. Only in the quick steps of floor salesmen, the slim backs of hostesses bringing us to our tables, do they remain, the artful flutters of their flashlights lost in dark we are left to find our own way through.
What god will catch me when I’m down, when I’ve taken sufficient drink to reveal myself, when my words are little more than a blurring of consonant and vowel?  I’m drunk on spring: branches of waxy leaves that greet me at my driveway, a family clutching trays of sweets. How can I sing of this?  If I cannot sing, then make me mute. Or lend me words, send me the taste of another’s prayer, cool as a coin newly minted on the tongue.
I passed through, I should have paused, there were a hundred doors. One opened. In there, someone whose name is not yet known to me lived out  his middle years in simple terms, two chairs, one place laid for early breakfast, one plate with dry toast and butter softening. There his mind raced through writings  he had memorized long ago while he tried to get hold of himself. Once in his youth he had studied with love in the corners of old paintings  matrices of fields and towns, passages intricate and particular, wheat, columns, figures and ground, classically proportioned  in lines that were meant to meet, eventually, at vanishing point. They continued, nevertheless; they troubled the eye.  He collected sets of books printed in the nineteenth century, unyielding pages, memoirs of the poets, engravings of rurified private subjects  in times of public sector unhappiness, frescoes of human oddity in gatefold printing. Why does it continue to chasten me, he says to no one.  It does. It is a painful mistaking, this setting something down, saying aloud, “it is nothing yet” when he’d meant, not anything—  but then nothing peered through the keyhole, nothing took possession. Snow on the roofs, snow in traces on the ground,  passersby with wet trouser-cuffs looking to the pavement as the hill rises, light gathering in the river and gradually spreading.
Who needs a scary movie when there’s scary life. Icy days pile up like empty pill bottles. One craves hot soup and bear sex. I can’t hibernate above the Kum &amp; Go when there’s Smokey lights  all night. It isn’t easy making change for a twenty on a Tuesday night, when they’re filling the tanks beneath the pumps and the manager’s on break.  All underage kids must come here. And go here? The world rhymes with itself. Earth is earth and row is row, whether to pull a set of oars and scull or a line of cornstalks completing the farmer’s math.  Up above the Kum &amp; Go I’m reading Maya Angelou  And there’s a head shop open 24 hrs they do not sell head but you might think it the way the patrons come and go all night all fall all night all fall.  I lived behind a sex club called The Power Exchange. All words have been charged with electric bodies ever since I wandered into my first poem. It was surely the Road Not Taken. Or maybe The Body Electric ... I’m easily mistaken.  An alder is reptilian in its body, lithe leaves at night and such vocal things. It is a sexy tongue the world speaks. So many licks to get to the polished moon. Tell me a story then. How did you come to be trampled or new or high where the warblers land and recklessly shit where they eat.  The universe I fear to be crashing. No painkillers for Doug. Ugh. It’s just autumn come. Electrical storms. The brave fire of the leaves and everything.  The pawpaw, along with the huckleberry, the chokecherry, cranberry, Concord grape, and persimmon is one of the indigenous fruits. I usually only get it here, and only this time of year. Fear is real. Especially that most unholy fear that we will be forgotten. Fruit, when it’s rotten, opens a door to memory from other lives. Is it wrong to wish for another life? My hand can barely write the thought. My eye can barely see, my soul, translate the fire into autumn’s sweet flush, persimmons taste like semen, pawpaw tastes like flesh, large hard seeds like date pits I spit off the balcony in summer into the parking lot below where none are sure to be hit nor anything grow.  A spider would not lower himself to touch such concrete ground. I would not live to see a tree grow to fruition, and yet each year I’d like to try. Well, Midwest, here I am. It’s pumpkin time. The cicadas have stopped singing. It’s just the crickets now along the river. But above the Kum &amp; Go, it’s wind and machinery. Why do they all take the same path, and why do these undergrads shout against the fall wind. The rebel angels’ cries are but the check-in cries of birds, “hey Mike, hey Mike.” It must be hard to be Mike, your name reduced in the ears of others to a syllable of grief. And then it seems that Mike is gone. Relief.
At the end of the story, When the plague has arrived, The performance can begin.  Displacing flimsy heaven And its contraptions, now Come practical urgencies:  Getting the price of salvation, Divined from the guts of birds Or from cruciform insects. Like  The savior Oedipus, kittens Are histrionic: defiant swagger Then ritual flight in terror.  “The soul of the cat is the form Of its body.” In Christendom, Civic mourners were hired  To walk the stricken city ways Chanting: “I am sick, I must Die
He went to the city and goosed all the girls With a stall on his finger for whittling the wills To a clause in his favour and Come to me Sally, One head in my chambers and one up your alley And I am as old as my master.  I followed him further and lost all my friends, The grease still thick on his fistful of pens. I laced up his mutton and paddled his lake In the game of Get-off-me and Just-for-my-sake And I am as old as my master.  I sang in his service a farewell to sorrow With rolled black stockings, the bone and the marrow. The Law was a devil to cheat as you pleased As we knelt on the backs of the city girls’ knees And I am as old as my master.  So back to the country where birds are squawking, With possets for pensions and witless talking Of walloped starvelings and soldiers’ fortunes From his nodding bench in the smothered orchards And I am as old as my master.  Age turns the cheek of a buried scandal In a nightmare of cheese and a quarter of candle. When the servant is privy he’s good as a guest, The first to be carved to and last to be pressed And I am as old as my master.  Country or city, no pleasure can last: It’s farewell to the future and beckon the past. Though he that we drink with is sometimes a fool, A single grey tooth may furnish a smile And I am as old as my master.
The Tenth Satire of Juvenal, Imitated Let observation with extensive view, Survey mankind, from China to Peru; Remark each anxious toil, each eager strife, And watch the busy scenes of crowded life; Then say how hope and fear, desire and hate, O’erspread with snares the clouded maze of fate, Where wav’ring man, betray’d by vent’rous pride To tread the dreary paths without a guide, As treach’rous phantoms in the mist delude, Shuns fancied ills, or chases airy good. How rarely reason guides the stubborn choice, Rules the bold hand, or prompts the suppliant voice, How nations sink, by darling schemes oppress’d, When vengeance listens to the fool’s request. Fate wings with ev’ry wish th’ afflictive dart, Each gift of nature, and each grace of art, With fatal heat impetuous courage glows, With fatal sweetness elocution flows, Impeachment stops the speaker’s pow’rful breath, And restless fire precipitates on death.  But scarce observ’d the knowing and the bold, Fall in the gen’ral massacre of gold; Wide-wasting pest! that rages unconfin’d, And crowds with crimes the records of mankind, For gold his sword the hireling ruffian draws, For gold the hireling judge distorts the laws; Wealth heap’d on wealth, nor truth nor safety buys, The dangers gather as the treasures rise.  Let hist’ry tell where rival kings command, And dubious title shakes the madded land, When statutes glean the refuse of the sword, How much more safe the vassal than the lord, Low sculks the hind beneath the rage of pow’r, And leaves the wealthy traitor in the Tow’r, Untouch’d his cottage, and his slumbers sound, Tho’ confiscation’s vultures hover round.  The needy traveller, serene and gay, Walks the wild heath, and sings his toil away. Does envy seize thee? crush th’ upbraiding joy, Increase his riches and his peace destroy, New fears in dire vicissitude invade, The rustling brake alarms, and quiv’ring shade, Nor light nor darkness bring his pain relief. One shews the plunder, and one hides the thief.  Yet still one gen’ral cry the skies assails, And gain and grandeur load the tainted gales, Few know the toiling statesman’s fear or care, Th’ insidious rival and the gaping heir.  Once more, Democritus, arise on earth, With cheerful wisdom and instructive mirth, See motley life in modern trappings dress’d, And feed with varied fools th’ eternal jest: Thou who couldst laugh where want enchain’d caprice, Toil crush’d conceit, and man was of a piece; Where wealth unlov’d without a mourner died; And scarce a sycophant was fed by pride; Where ne’er was known the form of mock debate, Or seen a new-made mayor’s unwieldy state; Where change of fav’rites made no change of laws, And senates heard before they judg’d a cause; How wouldst thou shake at Britain’s modish tribe, Dart the quick taunt, and edge the piercing gibe? Attentive truth and nature to decry, And pierce each scene with philosophic eye. To thee were solemn toys or empty show, The robes of pleasure and the veils of woe: All aid the farce, and all thy mirth maintain, Whose joys are causeless, or whose griefs are vain.  Such was the scorn that fill’d the sage’s mind, Renew’d at ev’ry glance on humankind; How just that scorn ere yet thy voice declare, Search every state, and canvas ev’ry pray’r.  Unnumber’d suppliants crowd Preferment’s gate, Athirst for wealth, and burning to be great; Delusive Fortune hears th’ incessant call, They mount, they shine, evaporate, and fall. On ev’ry stage the foes of peace attend, Hate dogs their flight, and insult mocks their end. Love ends with hope, the sinking statesman’s door Pours in the morning worshiper no more; For growing names the weekly scribbler lies, To growing wealth the dedicator flies, From every room descends the painted face, That hung the bright Palladium of the place, And smok’d in kitchens, or in auctions sold, To better features yields the frame of gold; For now no more we trace in ev’ry line Heroic worth, benevolence divine: The form distorted justifies the fall, And detestation rids th’ indignant wall.  ...  When first the college rolls receive his name, The young enthusiast quits his ease for fame; Through all his veins the fever of renown Spreads from the strong contagion of the gown; O’er Bodley’s dome his future labours spread, And Bacon’s mansion trembles o’er his head. Are these thy views? proceed, illustrious youth, And virtue guard thee to the throne of Truth! Yet should thy soul indulge the gen’rous heat, Till captive Science yields her last retreat; Should Reason guide thee with her brightest ray, And pour on misty Doubt resistless day; Should no false Kindness lure to loose delight, Nor Praise relax, nor Difficulty fright; Should tempting Novelty thy cell refrain, And Sloth effuse her opiate fumes in vain; Should Beauty blunt on fops her fatal dart, Nor claim the triumph of a letter’d heart; Should no disease thy torpid veins invade, Nor Melancholy’s phantoms haunt thy shade; Yet hope not life from grief or danger free, Nor think the doom of man revers’d for thee: Deign on the passing world to turn thine eyes, And pause awhile from letters, to be wise; There mark what ills the scholar’s life assail, Toil, envy, want, the patron, and the jail. See nations slowly wise, and meanly just, To buried merit raise the tardy bust. If dreams yet flatter, once again attend, Hear Lydiat’s life, and Galileo’s end.  Nor deem, when learning her last prize bestows The glitt’ring eminence exempt from foes; See when the vulgar ‘scape, despis’d or aw’d, Rebellion’s vengeful talons seize on Laud. From meaner minds, tho’ smaller fines content The plunder’d palace or sequester’d rent; Mark’d out by dangerous parts he meets the shock, And fatal Learning leads him to the block: Around his tomb let Art and Genius weep, But hear his death, ye blockheads, hear and sleep.  ...  Enlarge my life with multitude of days, In health, in sickness, thus the suppliant prays; Hides from himself his state, and shuns to know, That life protracted is protracted woe. Time hovers o’er, impatient to destroy, And shuts up all the passages of joy: In vain their gifts the bounteous seasons pour, The fruit autumnal, and the vernal flow’r, With listless eyes the dotard views the store, He views, and wonders that they please no more; Now pall the tasteless meats, and joyless wines, And Luxury with sighs her slave resigns. Approach, ye minstrels, try the soothing strain, And yield the tuneful lenitives of pain: No sounds alas would touch th’ impervious ear, Though dancing mountains witness’d Orpheus near; Nor lute nor lyre his feeble pow’rs attend, Nor sweeter music of a virtuous friend, But everlasting dictates crowd his tongue, Perversely grave, or positively wrong. The still returning tale, and ling’ring jest, Perplex the fawning niece and pamper’d guest, While growing hopes scarce awe the gath’ring sneer, And scarce a legacy can bribe to hear; The watchful guests still hint the last offence, The daughter’s petulance, the son’s expense, Improve his heady rage with treach’rous skill, And mould his passions till they make his will.  Unnumber’d maladies his joints invade, Lay siege to life and press the dire blockade; But unextinguish’d Av’rice still remains, And dreaded losses aggravate his pains; He turns, with anxious heart and crippled hands, His bonds of debt, and mortgages of lands; Or views his coffers with suspicious eyes, Unlocks his gold, and counts it till he dies.  But grant, the virtues of a temp’rate prime Bless with an age exempt from scorn or crime; An age that melts in unperceiv’d decay, And glides in modest innocence away; Whose peaceful day Benevolence endears, Whose night congratulating Conscience cheers; The gen’ral fav’rite as the gen’ral friend: Such age there is, and who could wish its end?  Yet ev’n on this her load Misfortune flings, To press the weary minutes’ flagging wings: New sorrow rises as the day returns, A sister sickens, or a daughter mourns. Now kindred Merit fills the sable bier, Now lacerated Friendship claims a tear. Year chases year, decay pursues decay, Still drops some joy from with’ring life away; New forms arise, and diff’rent views engage, Superfluous lags the vet’ran on the stage, Till pitying Nature signs the last release, And bids afflicted worth retire to peace.  But few there are whom hours like these await, Who set unclouded in the gulfs of fate. From Lydia’s monarch should the search descend, By Solon caution’d to regard his end, In life’s last scene what prodigies surprise, Fears of the brave, and follies of the wise? From Marlb’rough’s eyes the streams of dotage flow, And Swift expires a driv’ler and a show.  The teeming mother, anxious for her race, Begs for each birth the fortune of a face: Yet Vane could tell what ills from beauty spring; And Sedley curs’d the form that pleas’d a king. Ye nymphs of rosy lips and radiant eyes, Whom Pleasure keeps too busy to be wise, Whom Joys with soft varieties invite, By day the frolic, and the dance by night, Who frown with vanity, who smile with art, And ask the latest fashion of the heart, What care, what rules your heedless charms shall save, Each nymph your rival, and each youth your slave? Against your fame with fondness hate combines, The rival batters and the lover mines. With distant voice neglected Virtue calls, Less heard and less, the faint remonstrance falls; Tir’d with contempt, she quits the slipp’ry reign, And Pride and Prudence take her seat in vain. In crowd at once, where none the pass defend, The harmless freedom, and the private friend. The guardians yield, by force superior plied; By Int’rest, Prudence; and by Flatt’ry, Pride. Now Beauty falls betray’d, despis’d, distress’d, And hissing Infamy proclaims the rest.  Where then shall Hope and Fear their objects find? Must dull Suspense corrupt the stagnant mind? Must helpless man, in ignorance sedate, Roll darkling down the torrent of his fate? Must no dislike alarm, no wishes rise, No cries attempt the mercies of the skies? Enquirer, cease, petitions yet remain, Which Heav’n may hear, nor deem religion vain. Still raise for good the supplicating voice, But leave to Heav’n the measure and the choice. Safe in his pow’r, whose eyes discern afar The secret ambush of a specious pray’r. Implore his aid, in his decisions rest, Secure whate’er he gives, he gives the best. Yet when the sense of sacred presence fires, And strong devotion to the skies aspires, Pour forth thy fervours for a healthful mind, Obedient passions, and a will resign’d; For love, which scarce collective man can fill; For patience, sov’reign o’er transmuted ill; For faith, that panting for a happier seat, Counts death kind Nature’s signal of retreat: These goods for man the laws of Heav’n ordain, These goods he grants, who grants the pow’r to gain; With these celestial wisdom calms the mind, And makes the happiness she does not find.
I like to touch your tattoos in complete darkness, when I can’t see them. I’m sure of where they are, know by heart the neat lines of lightning pulsing just above your nipple, can find, as if by instinct, the blue swirls of water on your shoulder where a serpent twists, facing a dragon. When I pull you  to me, taking you until we’re spent and quiet on the sheets, I love to kiss the pictures in your skin. They’ll last until you’re seared to ashes; whatever persists or turns to pain between us, they will still be there. Such permanence is terrifying. So I touch them in the dark; but touch them, trying.
The woman at the Salvation Army who sorts and prices is in her eighties and she underestimates the value of everything, for which I am grateful.  Lightly used snow suits, size 2T, are $6 and snow boots are $3.  There is a little girl, maybe seven, fiddling with a tea set. Her mother inspects drapes for stains.  Sometimes the very old and lonely are looking for an opening.  She glances up from her pricing and says something about the tea set and a baby doll long ago.  I am careful not to make eye contact, but the mother with drapes has such softness in her shoulders and her face and she knows how to say the perfect kind thing—“What a wonderful mother you had.”  “Yes, she was.”  Why do children sometimes notice us and sometimes not?  From the bin of dolls: “What happened to your mother?”  “She died.”  The woman at the Salvation Army who sorts and prices is crying a little. She seems surprised to be crying. “It’s been eighty years and I still miss her.”  When my daughter was born I couldn’t stop thinking about how we were going to die. If we were drowning, would it be better to hold her to me even as she fought away or should I let her float off to wonder why her mother didn’t help her? What if it’s fire and I have one bullet left? I made sure my husband knew if there were death squads and he had to choose, I’d never love him again if he didn’t choose her. If I’m lucky, her crying face is the last thing I’ll see.  The mother with drapes is squeezing her daughter’s shoulder, trying to send a silent message, but children are children. “Why did she die?”  “She was going to have a baby and—And she died.”  “But she was a wonderful mother.”  I’m holding a stack of four wooden jigsaw puzzles of farm animals, dinosaurs, jungle animals, and pets. Each for a quarter.  “It’s silly how much I still miss her.” She takes out a tissue and wipes her eyes and then her nose.  When my grandmother threw her sister, Susie, a 90 th birthday party, one hundred people came, including 5 of the 6 brothers and sisters. At dusk only a few of us were left, nursing beers with our feet kicked up on the bottom rungs of various walkers.  Susie said then to my grandmother, “Can you think of all the people watching us in heaven now? And our mother must be in the front row.”  Grandma took her sister’s hand. “Our mother—Estelle.”  “Yes—her name was Estelle. I forgot that.”  They looked so happy then, saying her name back and forth to each other. Estelle. Estelle.
